- Riferimenti
	- #lavoro #[[Rete di Patologia]]
	- Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is one of the serious diseases 
	  endangering human health worldwide; it usually leads to serious handicap
	   with a high risk of recurrence and death. Despite the global burden of 
	  stroke, great advances are still being made. Since the publication of 
	  the 2013 guidelines for the early management of AIS patients, new 
	  high-quality evidence has resulted in prominent changes in the 
	  evidence-based treatment of AIS, such as image assessment, treatment 
	  beyond the time-window, new thrombolytic drugs, thrombolysis for strokes
	   with an unknown onset time, and dual antiplatelet therapy for minor 
	  strokes. Especially in 2015, publication of the results of five clinical
	   trials on mechanical thrombectomy contributed to the focused update of 
	  the 2013 guidelines for the early management of patients with AIS 
	  regarding endovascular treatment. Five years later, the publication of 
	  the DAWN and DEFUSE 3 results focusing on AIS beyond 6 h from onset 
	  demonstrated a significant benefit of mechanical thrombectomy for 
	  selected stroke patients 6 h–24 h from onset. Consequently, the American
	   Heart Association/American Stroke Association (AHA/ASA) issued new 
	  guidelines to supersede the 2013 guidelines in January 2018 [[1](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR1)],
	   of which certain chapters were unfortunately deleted due to 
	  controversy. Here, we highlight some of the new recommendations and 
	  comment on imaging evaluation, intravenous (IV) thrombolysis, mechanical
	   thrombectomy, and antiplatelet treatment from the AHA/ASA and the China
	   2018–2019 AIS guidelines [[2](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR2), [3](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR3)].
	- ##  Precision Thrombolysis and Thrombectomy under Multimodal Imaging Guidance
	  
	  The benefit of IV alteplase is time-dependent, and earlier 
	  treatment within the therapeutic window leads to a greater benefit. 
	  Studies have shown that median or mean door-to-imaging times of ≤20 min 
	  can be achieved in a variety of different hospital settings. As a 
	  result, the 2018 guidelines recommended that “brain imaging studies can 
	  be performed within 20 minutes of arrival in the emergency department 
	  (ED) in at least 50% of patients who may be candidates for IV alteplase 
	  and/or mechanical thrombectomy”. However, the absence of detailed 
	  screening information in the DAWN and DEFUSE 3 trials limits estimation 
	  of the true impact of time on prognosis in the population beyond the 6-h
	  time window, leading to the deletion of these specific values from the 
	  2019 update. Nevertheless, brain imaging should be performed as quickly 
	  as possible and these specific values could be set as potential targets.
	  Moreover, the new guidelines emphasize that, in patients eligible for 
	  IV alteplase, treatment should be initiated as quickly as possible and 
	  not delayed for additional multimodal neuroimaging, including enhanced 
	  computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (CT/MRI), CT angiography 
	  (CTA) with CT perfusion imaging (CTP) or MR angiography with 
	  diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) or MRI perfusion imaging. Non-contrast 
	  CT was the only neuroimaging modality used in the NINDS and ECASS III 
	  trials and it is therefore sufficient for decisions about IV alteplase 
	  in most patients. These recommendations imply that suspected patients 
	  eligible for thrombolysis should receive non-contrast CT scanning rather
	  than multimodal neuroimaging before IV alteplase treatment, even if 
	  mechanical thrombectomy is being considered.
	  
	  For certain stroke patients, some new recommendations for 
	  brain and vessel imaging have been made for eligibility evaluation of IV
	  thrombolysis or mechanical thrombectomy, owing to the favorable results
	  of up-to-date clinical trials. With respect to wake-up stroke or an 
	  unknown onset time >4.5 h, the guidelines recommend that a DWI–FLAIR 
	  (fluid attenuation inversion recovery) mismatch can be useful for 
	  selecting those who can benefit from IV alteplase treatment within 4.5 h
	  of stroke symptom recognition by virtue of the WAKE-UP trials [[4](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR4)].
	  Regarding stroke in the anterior circulation 6 h–24 h from last time 
	  seen normal, the guidelines recommend that CTP or diffusion-weighted MRI
	  with or without MRI perfusion is able to aid in patient selection for 
	  mechanical thrombectomy according to the DAWN and DEFUSE 3 clinical 
	  trials [[5](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR5), [6](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR6)].
	  In fact, multimodal CT is more widely available, faster, and more 
	  convenient than multimodal MRI. Therefore, multimodal CT is more widely 
	  used in China.
	  
	  Besides, the guidelines do not recommend obtaining an MRI 
	  to exclude cerebral microbleeds before IV alteplase administration for 
	  eligible patients, and also recommend that for patients with suspected 
	  intracranial large vessel occlusion and no history of renal impairment, 
	  it is reasonable to proceed with CTA before obtaining a serum creatinine
	  concentration for selection of endovascular treatment. The aim of these
	  detailed recommendations is to decrease the door-to-needle time and 
	  prevent delay of thrombolysis, and furthermore, standardization of these
	  evaluations is beneficial for the prevention of controversy and 
	  conflicts in clinical practice.
	- ##  IV Thrombolysis
	  
	  The safety and efficacy of IV thrombolysis within the first
	  3 h after stroke onset are solidly supported by combined data from 
	  multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and have been confirmed by 
	  extensive community experience in many countries. The eligibility 
	  criteria for IV alteplase have evolved over time as its usefulness and 
	  the true risks have become clearer. Therefore, in contrast to the 2013 
	  guidelines, the 2018 guidelines and 2019 update specify and revise the 
	  indications and contraindications of IV thrombolysis, which guarantees 
	  that more AIS patients benefit from this treatment.
	  
	  For patients > 80 years old presenting within the 3-h to
	  4.5-h window, the 2019 update recommends that IV alteplase is safe and 
	  can be as effective as in younger patients, unlike the 2013 guidelines. 
	  The ECASS III trial specifically confirmed the efficacy of IV alteplase 
	  in the time period from 3 h to 4.5 h after symptom onset; however it 
	  excluded patients >80 years old. Later, pooled analysis of multiple 
	  trials indicated that patients older than 80 years achieved benefits 
	  similar to those aged 80 years or younger, particularly when treated 
	  early [[7](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR7)].
	  
	  In the 2019 update, mild stroke is set as a specific 
	  sub-item, and three new recommendations are provided. For mild disabling
	  stroke symptoms, IV thrombolysis may be reasonable for patients who can
	  be treated within 3 h–4.5 h of ischemic stroke onset or patients last 
	  time known well. However, it should be noted that for patients with mild
	  non-disabling stroke symptoms [NIHSS (NIH Stroke Scale) score 0–5], IV 
	  alteplase is not recommended for those who can be treated within 3 h or 
	  within 3 h–4.5 h of symptom onset or patient last time known well. This 
	  is based on the PRISMS RCT results, which demonstrated that there was no
	  benefit of IV alteplase in patients with mild (NIHSS score 0–5) AIS 
	  within 3 h of onset [[8](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR8)]. However, due to the very early termination of this study, additional research may be warranted.
	  
	  AIS patients with an unknown time of onset are recommended 
	  to receive IV alteplase treatment within 4.5 h of stroke symptom 
	  recognition guided by a mismatch between diffusion-weighted MRI and 
	  FLAIR in the region of ischemia. The evidence came from the WAKE-UP RCT 
	  in 2018 which randomized 503 AIS patients who awoke with stroke or had 
	  an unclear time of onset and could be treated with IV alteplase within 
	  4.5 h of stroke symptom recognition [[4](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR4)].
	  This trial demonstrated that the primary end-point of a modified Rankin
	  scale (mRS) score of 0–1 at 90 days was achieved in 53.3% of the 
	  alteplase group and in 41.8% of the placebo group (*P* = 0.02). 
	  Later, a meta-analysis demonstrated that AIS patients 4.5 h–9 h from 
	  stroke onset or wake-up stroke with salvageable brain tissue, assessed 
	  by perfusion-weighted MRI (PW-MRI) or CTP, who were treated with 
	  alteplase achieved better functional outcomes at 3 months than did 
	  patients given placebo (OR 1.86, 95% CI 1.15–2.99, *P* = 0.011)[[9](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR9)].
	  The rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage was higher with 
	  alteplase, but this increase did not negate the overall net benefit of 
	  thrombolysis. This means that the time-window of IV thrombolysis for AIS
	  is extended for eligible stroke patients selected by PW-MRI or CTP, 
	  meaning more patients benefit from this treatment.
	  
	  Besides, these guidelines give new recommendations on some 
	  particular conditions. First, for stroke patients with a hyperdense MCA 
	  sign, IV alteplase treatment can be beneficial, because analyses of data
	  from RCTs of IV alteplase for AIS have shown no statistically 
	  significant deleterious interaction on clinical outcomes between 
	  alteplase treatment and the hyperdense MCA sign on baseline CT. Second, 
	  IV alteplase can be beneficial for adults with known sickle-cell disease
	  presenting with an AIS. Third, for eligible patients with previous 
	  cerebral microbleeds demonstrated on MRI, administration of IV alteplase
	  is reasonable with ≤10 microbleeds while IV thrombolysis may increase 
	  the risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage with > 10 
	  microbleeds unless there is potential for substantial benefit. All these
	  new recommendations suggest that thrombolysis is beneficial for 
	  specific conditions, ensuring that more patients are treated with 
	  alteplase.
	- ##  Mechanical Thrombectomy
	  
	  Recently, a major advance was achieved in the endovascular
	  treatment of early stroke with an extended time window. Due to the 
	  results of the DAWN and DEFUSE 3 trials, two new recommendations related
	  to mechanical thrombectomy were provided for symptom onset > 6 h in 
	  the 2018 guidelines and a more elaborate format rearrangement is made in
	  the 2019 update, leading to the selection of more eligible patients for
	  endovascular treatment through extension of the time window.
	  
	  In the 2015 endovascular guidelines, the results from 6 
	  randomized trials (MR CLEAN, SWIFT PRIME, EXTEND-IA, ESCAPE, REVASCAT, 
	  and THRACE) supported the Class I, LOE (level of evidence) A 
	  recommendations of mechanical thrombectomy for a defined group of 
	  patients within 6 h of stroke onset, predominantly using stent retriever
	  devices. In 2018, two outstanding trials (DAWN and DEFUSE 3) 
	  demonstrated the efficacy and safety of thrombectomy for stroke patients
	  >6 h after onset. The DAWN trial used clinical imaging mismatch (a 
	  combination of NIHSS score and imaging findings on CTP or 
	  diffusion-weighted MRI) as eligibility criteria to select patients with 
	  large anterior circulation vessel occlusion for treatment with 
	  mechanical thrombectomy between 6 h and 24 h from last time known 
	  normal. This trial demonstrated an overall benefit in functional outcome
	  at 90 days in the treatment group [[5](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR5)] (mRS score 0–2, 49% *versus*
	  13%; adjusted difference, 33%; 95% CI, 21–44). The DEFUSE 3 trial used 
	  perfusion–core mismatch and maximum core size as imaging criteria to 
	  select patients with large anterior circulation occlusion 6 h–16 h from 
	  last time seen well for mechanical thrombectomy. This trial showed a 
	  benefit in functional outcome at 90 days in the treated group[[6](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR6)] (mRS score 0–2, 44.6% *versus* 16.7%; relative risk, 2.67; 95% CI, 1.60–4.48; *P*
	  <0.0001). DAWN and DEFUSE 3 are the only RCTs showing a benefit of 
	  mechanical thrombectomy >6 h from onset. Therefore, only the 
	  eligibility criteria from one or the other of these trials should be 
	  used for patient selection. Although future RCTs may demonstrate that 
	  additional eligibility criteria can be used to select patients who 
	  benefit from mechanical thrombectomy, at this time, the DAWN or DEFUSE-3
	  eligibility should be strictly adhered to in clinical practice.
	- ##  Antiplatelet Treatment
	  
	  Antiplatelet treatment plays a fundamental role in AIS 
	  treatment and prevention. The new evidence mainly comes from the results
	  of clinical trials in patients with minor stroke and high-risk 
	  transient ischemic attack (TIA). First of all, one modification of the 
	  new guidelines is related to the dual antiplatelet therapy of minor 
	  non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke (NIHSS score ≤ 3), with the 
	  recommendation strength elevated from COR (class of recommendation) IIa,
	  LOE B-randomized to COR I, LOE A by virtue of evidence from the CHANCE 
	  and POINT trials. In 2013, the CHANCE trial conducted in China studied 
	  the efficacy of short-term dual antiplatelet therapy begun within 24 h 
	  in patients with minor stroke or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥ 4). The 
	  dosage regimen was clopidogrel at an initial dose of 300 mg, followed by
	  75 mg per day for 90 days, plus aspirin at 75 mg per day for the first 
	  21 days or to placebo plus aspirin (75 mg per day for 90 days). All 
	  participants received open-label aspirin at a clinician-determined dose 
	  of 75 mg–300 mg on day 1. The primary outcome of recurrent stroke 
	  (ischemic or hemorrhagic) at 90 days favored dual antiplatelet therapy 
	  over aspirin alone [[10](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR10)] (HR 0.68; 95% CI, 0.57–0.81; *P*
	  < 0.001). In 2018, the POINT trial conducted in western countries 
	  enrolled a similar population of patients with minor stroke (NIHSS score
	  ≤3) or high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥ 4) within 12 h of symptom onset. 
	  Patients were randomized to either clopidogrel plus aspirin (600 mg 
	  loading dose of clopidogrel followed by 75 mg/day from days 2–90) plus 
	  open-label aspirin (50 mg/day–325 mg/day) *versus* aspirin alone 
	  (50 mg/day–325 mg/day) for 90 days. Compared with aspirin alone, aspirin
	  plus clopidogrel resulted in fewer ischemic events (5% *versus* 6.5%; HR, 0.75 [95% CI, 0.59–0.95]; *P* = 0.02) but more major hemorrhages[[11](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR11)] (0.9% *versus* 0.4%; HR, 2.32 [95% CI, 1.10–4.87]; *P*
	  = 0.02). A pooled analysis including FASTER, CHANCE, and POINT 
	  concluded that discontinuation of dual antiplatelet therapy within 21 
	  days of initiation, and possibly as early as 10 days, is likely to 
	  maximize benefit and minimize harm [[12](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR12)].
	  
	  Another new recommendation related to antiplatelet 
	  treatment is that ticagrelor is not recommended over aspirin for the 
	  treatment of patients with minor acute stroke based on the SOCRATES 
	  trial [[13](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR13)] [ticagrelor *versus*
	  aspirin begun within 24 h in patients with minor stroke (NIHSS score 
	  ≤5) or TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4)]. With a primary outcome of time to the 
	  composite end-point of stroke, myocardial infarction, or death up to 90 
	  days, ticagrelor was not found to be superior to aspirin (HR, 0.89 [95% 
	  CI, 0.78–1.01]; *P* = 0.07). However, because there were no 
	  significant safety differences between the two groups, ticagrelor may be
	  a reasonable alternative in stroke patients who have a contraindication
	  for aspirin.
	  
	  One minor revision of the 2018 guidelines is that the 
	  specific dosage recommendation, “initial dose is 325 mg” was removed, 
	  because the safety and benefit of antiplatelet treatment with aspirin 
	  for AIS patients were established by two large clinical trials 
	  administering doses between 160 mg and 300 mg within 24 h–48 h after 
	  onset [[2](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7532245/#CR2)].
	  
	  In conclusion, increasing evidence from high-quantity 
	  clinical trials provides new support for more detailed recommendations 
	  for the early management of AIS and eventually provides more potential 
	  benefit for patients.
	- ##  Acknowledgements
	  
	  This insight article was supported by the National Natural Science 
	  Foundation of China (81920108017, 81630028, and 81870928), the Key 
	  Research and Development Program of Jiangsu Province, China (BE2016610),
	  and Jiangsu Province Key Medical Discipline (ZDXKA2016020).
	- ##  Conflict of interest
	  
	  The authors claim that there are no conflicts of interest.
	- ##  References
	- 1.Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T,
	  Adeoye OM, Bambakidis NC, Becker K, et al.  Guidelines for the Early 
	  Management of Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke: A guideline for 
	  healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American 
	  Stroke Association. Stroke. 2018;49:e46–e110. doi: 
	  10.1161/STR.0000000000000158. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/STR.0000000000000158)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29367334/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Stroke&title=Guidelines%20for%20the%20Early%20Management%20of%20Patients%20With%20Acute%20Ischemic%20Stroke:%20A%20guideline%20for%20healthcare%20professionals%20from%20the%20American%20Heart%20Association/American%20Stroke%20Association&author=WJ%20Powers&author=AA%20Rabinstein&author=T%20Ackerson&author=OM%20Adeoye&author=NC%20Bambakidis&volume=49&publication_year=2018&pages=e46-e110&pmid=29367334&doi=10.1161/STR.0000000000000158&)]
	- 2.Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T,
	  Adeoye OM, Bambakidis NC, Becker K, et al.  Guidelines for the Early 
	  Management of Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke: 2019 Update to the 
	  2018 Guidelines for the Early Management of Acute Ischemic Stroke: A 
	  guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart 
	  Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2019;50:e344–e418. doi:
	  10.1161/STROKEAHA.118.022606. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1161/STROKEAHA.118.022606)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31662037/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Stroke&title=Guidelines%20for%20the%20Early%20Management%20of%20Patients%20With%20Acute%20Ischemic%20Stroke:%202019%20Update%20to%20the%202018%20Guidelines%20for%20the%20Early%20Management%20of%20Acute%20Ischemic%20Stroke:%20A%20guideline%20for%20healthcare%20professionals%20from%20the%20American%20Heart%20Association/American%20Stroke%20Association&author=WJ%20Powers&author=AA%20Rabinstein&author=T%20Ackerson&author=OM%20Adeoye&author=NC%20Bambakidis&volume=50&publication_year=2019&pages=e344-e418&pmid=31662037&doi=10.1161/STROKEAHA.118.022606&)]
	- 3.Chinese Society of Neurology and 
	  Chinese Stroke Society  Chinese guidelines for diagnosis and treatment 
	  of acute ischemic stroke 2018. Chin J Neurol. 2018;51:666–682. [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Chin%20J%20Neurol&title=Chinese%20guidelines%20for%20diagnosis%20and%20treatment%20of%20acute%20ischemic%20stroke%202018&volume=51&publication_year=2018&pages=666-682&)]
	- 4.Thomalla G, Simonsen CZ, Boutitie F, 
	  Andersen G, Berthezene Y, Cheng B, et al.  MRI-guided thrombolysis for 
	  stroke with unknown time of onset. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:611–622. doi: 
	  10.1056/NEJMoa1804355. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1804355)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29766770/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=MRI-guided%20thrombolysis%20for%20stroke%20with%20unknown%20time%20of%20onset&author=G%20Thomalla&author=CZ%20Simonsen&author=F%20Boutitie&author=G%20Andersen&author=Y%20Berthezene&volume=379&publication_year=2018&pages=611-622&pmid=29766770&doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1804355&)]
	- 5.Nogueira RG, Jadhav AP, Haussen DC, 
	  Bonafe A, Budzik RF, Bhuva P, et al.  Thrombectomy 6 to 24 hours after 
	  stroke with a mismatch between deficit and infarct. N Engl J Med. 
	  2018;378:11–21. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1706442. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1706442)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29129157/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=Thrombectomy%206%20to%2024%20hours%20after%20stroke%20with%20a%20mismatch%20between%20deficit%20and%20infarct&author=RG%20Nogueira&author=AP%20Jadhav&author=DC%20Haussen&author=A%20Bonafe&author=RF%20Budzik&volume=378&publication_year=2018&pages=11-21&pmid=29129157&doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1706442&)]
	- 6.Albers GW, Marks MP, Kemp S, 
	  Christensen S, Tsai JP, Ortega-Gutierrez S, et al.  Thrombectomy for 
	  stroke at 6 to 16 hours with selection by perfusion imaging. N Engl J 
	  Med. 2018;378:708–718. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1713973. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1713973)] [[PMC free article](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6590673/)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29364767/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=Thrombectomy%20for%20stroke%20at%206%20to%2016%20hours%20with%20selection%20by%20perfusion%20imaging&author=GW%20Albers&author=MP%20Marks&author=S%20Kemp&author=S%20Christensen&author=JP%20Tsai&volume=378&publication_year=2018&pages=708-718&pmid=29364767&doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1713973&)]
	- 7.Wardlaw JM, Murray V, Berge E, del 
	  Zoppo G, Sandercock P, Lindley RL, et al.  Recombinant tissue 
	  plasminogen activator for acute ischaemic stroke: an updated systematic 
	  review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2012;379:2364–2372. doi: 
	  10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60738-7. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60738-7)] [[PMC free article](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3386494/)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22632907/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Lancet&title=Recombinant%20tissue%20plasminogen%20activator%20for%20acute%20ischaemic%20stroke:%20an%20updated%20systematic%20review%20and%20meta-analysis&author=JM%20Wardlaw&author=V%20Murray&author=E%20Berge&author=G%20del%20Zoppo&author=P%20Sandercock&volume=379&publication_year=2012&pages=2364-2372&pmid=22632907&doi=10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60738-7&)]
	- 8.Khatri P, Kleindorfer DO, Devlin T, 
	  Sawyer RN, Jr, Starr M, Mejilla J, et al.  Effect of alteplase vs 
	  aspirin on functional outcome for patients with acute ischemic stroke 
	  and minor nondisabling neurologic deficits: The PRISMS randomized 
	  clinical trial. JAMA. 2018;320:156–166. doi: 10.1001/jama.2018.8496. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2018.8496)] [[PMC free article](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6583516/)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29998337/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=JAMA&title=Effect%20of%20alteplase%20vs%20aspirin%20on%20functional%20outcome%20for%20patients%20with%20acute%20ischemic%20stroke%20and%20minor%20nondisabling%20neurologic%20deficits:%20The%20PRISMS%20randomized%20clinical%20trial&author=P%20Khatri&author=DO%20Kleindorfer&author=T%20Devlin&author=RN%20Sawyer&author=M%20Starr&volume=320&publication_year=2018&pages=156-166&pmid=29998337&doi=10.1001/jama.2018.8496&)]
	- 9.Campbell BCV, Ma H, Ringleb PA, Parsons MW, Churilov L, Bendszus M*, et al.*
	  Extending thrombolysis to 4.5-9 h and wake-up stroke using perfusion 
	  imaging: a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual patient 
	  data. Lancet 2019, 394: 139–147. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(19)31053-0)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31128925/)]
	- 10.Wang Y, Zhao X, Liu L, Wang D, Wang 
	  C, Li H, et al.  Clopidogrel with aspirin in acute minor stroke or 
	  transient ischemic attack. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:11–19. doi: 
	  10.1056/NEJMoa1215340. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1215340)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23803136/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=Clopidogrel%20with%20aspirin%20in%20acute%20minor%20stroke%20or%20transient%20ischemic%20attack&author=Y%20Wang&author=X%20Zhao&author=L%20Liu&author=D%20Wang&author=C%20Wang&volume=369&publication_year=2013&pages=11-19&pmid=23803136&doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1215340&)]
	- 11.Johnston SC, Easton JD, Farrant M, 
	  Barsan W, Conwit RA, Elm JJ, et al.  Clopidogrel and aspirin in acute 
	  ischemic stroke and high-risk TIA. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:215–225. doi: 
	  10.1056/NEJMoa1800410. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1800410)] [[PMC free article](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6193486/)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29766750/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=Clopidogrel%20and%20aspirin%20in%20acute%20ischemic%20stroke%20and%20high-risk%20TIA&author=SC%20Johnston&author=JD%20Easton&author=M%20Farrant&author=W%20Barsan&author=RA%20Conwit&volume=379&publication_year=2018&pages=215-225&pmid=29766750&doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800410&)]
	- 12.Hao Q, Tampi M, O’Donnell M, 
	  Foroutan F, Siemieniuk RA, Guyatt G. Clopidogrel plus aspirin versus 
	  aspirin alone for acute minor ischaemic stroke or high risk transient 
	  ischaemic attack: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ. 
	  2018;363:k5108. doi: 10.1136/bmj.k5108. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.k5108)] [[PMC free article](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6298178/)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30563866/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMJ&title=Clopidogrel%20plus%20aspirin%20versus%20aspirin%20alone%20for%20acute%20minor%20ischaemic%20stroke%20or%20high%20risk%20transient%20ischaemic%20attack:%20systematic%20review%20and%20meta-analysis&author=Q%20Hao&author=M%20Tampi&author=M%20O%E2%80%99Donnell&author=F%20Foroutan&author=RA%20Siemieniuk&volume=363&publication_year=2018&pages=k5108&pmid=30563866&doi=10.1136/bmj.k5108&)]
	- 13.Johnston SC, Amarenco P. Ticagrelor 
	  versus aspirin in acute stroke or transient ischemic attack. N Engl J 
	  Med. 2016;375:1395. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1610341. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMc1610341)] [[PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27705253/)] [[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=N%20Engl%20J%20Med&title=Ticagrelor%20versus%20aspirin%20in%20acute%20stroke%20or%20transient%20ischemic%20attack&author=SC%20Johnston&author=P%20Amarenco&volume=375&publication_year=2016&pages=1395&pmid=27705253&doi=10.1056/NEJMc1610341&)